h2. Builder

[blockquote:Separate the construction of a complex object from its representation so that the same construction process can create different representations.|
Gang of Four|
Gamma, Erich; Helm, Richard; Johnson, Ralph; Vlissides, John (1994-10-31). Design Patterns: Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented Software|
http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85009.Design_Patterns]

[img:doc/Builder/uml.png|Builder pattern class diagram]

The pattern allows:

* decoupling construction of complex objects from the module;
* multiple representations of object construction algorithm;
* run-time control over object construction process;
* an application design abstraction where one object acts as a Director and other as subordinated Builders.

h3. PHP Example

Imagine that we have an object consisting of many parts which we
need to re-build into a new one so, that its parts had different representations.
For instance we work on a text convertor which is expected to process
properly all the parts of the original document. In following example you can
find Builder ([var:AbstractConvertor]) object with all the methods to convert every
property of the initial document (Author, Title, Chapter).
Concrete Builders [var:Epub] and [var:Pdf] implement Builder interface
for the responsive text formats. The Director ([var:Reader]) constructs
a new object (Product) from a given initial document ([var:Entity]) and using a Concrete Builder.

[img:doc/Builder/PHP/uml.png|Builder pattern PHP example class diagram]

[code:sources/Builder/PHP/tutorial.php|php]

h3. JavaScript Example

In EcmaScript example we use Director ([var:moduleManager]) to build a widget based
on a supplied configuration and using a given Concrete Builder ([var:ThemeA]).
Thus if configuration changes toward an other theme, it's going to be transparent
for the client application.

[img:doc/Builder/EcmaScript/uml.png|Builder pattern EcmaScript example class diagram]

[code:sources/Builder/JavaScript/example.js|js]

h3. JSA Example

[code:sources/Builder/JSA/example.js|js]

h3. TypeScript Example

[code:sources/Builder/TypeScript/example.ts|js]